Azure Container Instances document (#5101)
SumoLogic/sumologic-documentation: docs/integrations/microsoft-azure/azure-container-instances.md

3. Use existing resource group or create a new one in Azure.
4. Update the <a href="https://sumologic-app-data-v2.s3.amazonaws.com/dashboards/Azure-Container-Instances/logging-sidecar-deploy.yaml" target="_blank">**logging-sidecar-deploy.yaml**</a> file with your own application image whose logs you want to collect. In the file we have used nginx application as an example whose log files(access logs and error logs) are created in a shared volume(/var/log/nginx).
4. Deploy the <a href="/files/logging-sidecar-deploy.yaml" target="_blank">**logging-sidecar-deploy.yaml**</a> Azure template.
   * parameter - `/fluent-bit/bin/fluent-bit` is fluent-bit executable path.
   * parameter - `-c /root/output_conf.yaml` is fluent-bit configuration file path.
      * Inputs parameters in the `output_conf.yaml` file.
         * **tail**. Read logs command name.
         * **path**. Log file path from where fluent bit collector is collecting logs.
      * Outputs parameters in the `output_conf.yaml` file.
          * **name*. HTTP output collector. By default, the name key will be assigned with *http* as value.

>           * **format**. Data format by which you can send logs to Sumo Logic. By default, the format key will be assigned with *json_lines* as value, since, Sumo Logic only supports json format log line.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          * **format**. Data format by which you can send logs to Sumo Logic. By default, the format key will be assigned with *json_lines* as value.
```

          * **compress**. Payload compression mechanism. The recommended file type from Sumo Logic is `gzip`.
          * **match**. Log matching rule.
          * **host**. Sumo Logic collector host.
          * **port**. Sumo Logic collector port.
          * **tls=on**. By default, *on* value will be assigned to enable the TLS support.
          * **tls.verify**. By default, *off* value will be assigned to disable the certificate validation.
          * **URI**. Sumo Logic HTTP collector URI.
          * **json_date_key**. Name of the date field in output.
          * **header**. X-Sumo-Fields header used to tag fields during logs collection.

> 5. for more details how to deploy azure container instance group please refer to [Azure Documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/container-instances/container-instances-quickstart).

Reviewer: ```suggestion

To learn more details on how to deploy azure container instance, refer to the [Azure Documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/container-instances/container-instances-quickstart).
```

---
id: azure-container-instances
title: Azure Container Instances
description: Learn about the Sumo Logic collection process for the Azure Container Instances service.
---

import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

<img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/microsoft-azure/azure-container-instances.png')} alt="Thumbnail icon" width="50"/>

[Azure Container Instances](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/container-instances/) is a fully managed serverless container service that enables you to deploy and manage containers in Azure without the need for virtual machines. It is ideal for event-driven applications, microservices, and batch processing workloads.

## Log and metric types

For Azure Container Instances, you can collect the following logs and metrics:

> * **Audit Logs** The activity log contains subscription-level events that track operations for each Azure resource as seen from outside that resource, for more details refer to the [Azure Documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/container-instances/monitor-azure-container-instances#azure-activity-log).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Audit Logs**. The activity log contains subscription-level events that track operations for each Azure resource as seen from outside that resource. For more details, refer to the [Azure Documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/container-instances/monitor-azure-container-instances#azure-activity-log).
```

> * **Resource Logs**. Capture container creation, execution, and failure logs. The schema for resource logs is described [here](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/container-instances/container-instances-monitor#resource-logs).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Resource Logs**. Capture container creation, execution, and failure logs. Refer to the [Microsoft Documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/container-instances/container-instances-monitor#resource-logs) to know about the schema for resource logs.
```

---
id: azure-container-instances
title: Azure Container Instances
description: Learn about the Sumo Logic collection process for the Azure Container Instances service.
---

import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

<img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/microsoft-azure/azure-container-instances.png')} alt="Thumbnail icon" width="50"/>

[Azure Container Instances](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/container-instances/) is a fully managed serverless container service that enables you to deploy and manage containers in Azure without the need for virtual machines. It is ideal for event-driven applications, microservices, and batch processing workloads.

## Log and metric types

For Azure Container Instances, you can collect the following logs and metrics:

* **Resource Logs**. Capture container creation, execution, and failure logs. The schema for resource logs is described [here](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/container-instances/container-instances-monitor#resource-logs).
* **Metrics**. Metrics for Azure Container Instances are in the following namespaces:

>   * [Microsoft.ContainerInstance/containerGroups](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/reference/supported-metrics/microsoft-containerinstance-containergroups-metrics)

Reviewer 2: Add activity logs

For more information on supported dimensions, refer to [Azure documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/container-instances/container-instances-monitor#metrics).

## Setup

> Azure service sends monitoring data to Azure Monitor, which can then [stream data to an event hub](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/essentials/stream-monitoring-data-event-hubs). Sumo Logic supports:

Reviewer 2: This whole setup section will change since we are using fluentbit and azure beta metrics source

   | if (isBlank(resourceId1), resourceId2, resourceId1) as resourceId
   | toUpperCase(resourceId) as resourceId
   | parse regex field=resourceId "/SUBSCRIPTIONS/(?<subscription_id>[^/]+)" nodrop
   | parse field=resourceId "/RESOURCEGROUPS/*/" as resource_group nodrop
   | parse regex field=resourceId "/PROVIDERS/(?<provider_name>[^/]+)" nodrop
   | parse regex field=resourceId "/PROVIDERS/[^/]+(?:/LOCATIONS/[^/]+)?/(?<resource_type>[^/]+)/(?<resource_name>.+)" nodrop
   | parse regex field=resource_name "(?<parent_resource_name>[^/]+)(?:/PROVIDERS/[^/]+)?/(?<service_type>[^/]+)/?(?<service_name>.+)" nodrop
   | if (isBlank(parent_resource_name), resource_name, parent_resource_name) as resource_name
   | fields subscription_id, location, provider_name, resource_group, resource_type, resource_name, service_type, service_name
   ```

### Configure metric rules

Create the following metrics rules by following the instructions in [Create a metrics rule](/docs/metrics/metric-rules-editor/#create-a-metrics-rule).

#### Azure observability metadata extraction service level

If this rule already exists, there is no need to create it again.

   ```sql

>    Rule Name: AzureObservabilityMetadataExtractionServiceLevel    

Reviewer 2: Do we need this service level rule? There is no service name and service type child resources

   | resource_group    | $resourceId._2              |
   | provider_name     | MICROSOFT.CONTAINERINSTANCE |
   | resource_type     | $resourceId._3              |
   | resource_name     | $resourceId._4              |

### Configure metrics collection
 
 For metrics collection follow guidelines in [Azue Metrics Source](/docs/send-data/hosted-collectors/microsoft-source/azure-metrics-source/).
 
 While you configure metrics collection you need to tag the location field in the source with right location value. <br/><img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/microsoft-azure/Azure-Storage-Tag-Location.png')} alt="Azure Container Instance Tag Location" style={{border: '1px solid gray'}} width="400" />
 
 Also you need to configure namespaces as shown below. <br/><img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/microsoft-azure/azure-container-instance-namespaces.png')} alt="Azure Container Instance Namespaces" style={{border: '1px solid gray'}} width="500" />

### Configure logs collection
1. Add a hosted collector and [HTTP Source](/docs/send-data/collect-from-other-data-sources/azure-monitoring/collect-metrics-azure-monitor/#step-1-configure-an-http-source).

> 2. Create and push a custom image using a <a href="/files/Dockerfile" target="_blank">Docker file</a> and <a href="/files/output_conf.yaml" target="_blank">output_conf.yaml</a> onto a Docker hub.

Reviewer 2: Docker hub -> container repository. The image url will be used in logging-sidecar-deploy.yaml

> 3. Create new resource group in Azure.

Reviewer 2: one can also use the existing resource group

> 4. Deploy the <a href="/files/logging-sidecar-deploy.yaml" target="_blank">logging-sidecar-deploy.yaml</a> Azure template.

Reviewer 2: Let's add azure cli commands also for deploying container group and creating resource group

> 4. Deploy the <a href="/files/logging-sidecar-deploy.yaml" target="_blank">logging-sidecar-deploy.yaml</a> Azure template.

Reviewer 2: Update the logging-sidecar-deploy.yaml file with your own application image whose logs you want to collect. In the file we have used nginx application as an example whose log files(access logs and error logs) are created in a shared volume(/var/log/nginx)
Describe all the parameters that needs to be replaced in that file

   | parse regex field=resourceId "/PROVIDERS/(?<provider_name>[^/]+)" nodrop
   | parse regex field=resourceId "/PROVIDERS/[^/]+(?:/LOCATIONS/[^/]+)?/(?<resource_type>[^/]+)/(?<resource_name>.+)" nodrop
   | parse regex field=resource_name "(?<parent_resource_name>[^/]+)(?:/PROVIDERS/[^/]+)?/(?<service_type>[^/]+)/?(?<service_name>.+)" nodrop
   | if (isBlank(parent_resource_name), resource_name, parent_resource_name) as resource_name
   | fields subscription_id, location, provider_name, resource_group, resource_type, resource_name, service_type, service_name
   ```

### Configure metric rules

Create the following metrics rules by following the instructions in [Create a metrics rule](/docs/metrics/metric-rules-editor/#create-a-metrics-rule).

#### Azure observability metadata extraction service level

If this rule already exists, there is no need to create it again.

   ```sql
   Rule Name: AzureObservabilityMetadataExtractionServiceLevel    
   ```
   
   ```sql title="Metric match expression"
   resourceId=/SUBSCRIPTIONS/*/RESOURCEGROUPS/*/PROVIDERS/*/*/*/*/* tenant_name=*
   ```
   | Fields extracted | Metric rule    |

>    |------------------|----------------|

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   |:------------------|:----------------|
```

1. [Export metrics to Event Hub](/docs/send-data/collect-from-other-data-sources/azure-monitoring/collect-metrics-azure-monitor/#step-3-export-metrics-for-a-particular-resource-to-event-hub). Perform below steps for each Azure Container Instances namespace that you want to monitor.
   1. Choose `Stream to an event hub` as destination.
   1. Select `AllMetrics`.
   1. Use the Event Hub namespace created by the ARM template in Step 2 above. You can create a new Event Hub or use the one created by ARM template. You can use the default policy `RootManageSharedAccessKey` as the policy name.<br/><img src={useBaseUrl('img/send-data/azure-event-grid-metrics.png')} alt="Azure Container Instances metrics" style={{border: '1px solid gray'}} width="800" />
1. Tag the location field in the source with right location value. <br/><img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/microsoft-azure/Azure-Storage-Tag-Location.png')} alt="Azure Container Instances Tag Location" style={{border: '1px solid gray'}} width="400" />

### Configure logs collection

In this section, you will configure a pipeline for shipping diagnostic logs from Azure Monitor to an Event Hub.

> #### Diagnostic logs

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

#### Diagnostic logs

```

>    #ToDo Replacement for Diagnostic logs

Reviewer 4: You need to replace "#ToDo Replacement for Diagnostic logs" with the correct text.

#### Activity Logs

> To collect activity logs, follow the instructions [here](/docs/integrations/microsoft-azure/audit). Do not perform this step in case you are already collecting activity logs for a subscription.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To collect activity logs, follow the instructions [here](/docs/integrations/microsoft-azure/audit). Skip this step if you are already collecting activity logs for a subscription.
```

:::note
Since this source contains logs from multiple regions, make sure that you do not tag this source with the location tag.
:::

## Viewing the Azure Container Instances dashboards

import ViewDashboards from '../../reuse/apps/view-dashboards.md';

<ViewDashboards/>

### Error Logs

The **Azure Container Instance - Error Logs** dashboard provides detailed information on what is happening (errors or recent events) in a container.

> Use this dashboard to:
> * View Total Errors.
> * Top 10 Errors bar chart.
> * Log Level Error distribution.
> * Error Trend by Container.
> * Recent Container Logs

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Use this dashboard to view:
* Total Errors
* Top 10 Errors bar chart
* Log Level Error distribution
* Error Trend by Container
* Recent Container Logs
```
